Add twia12 and change structure (#114)
amethyst/website: src/content/blog/twia-12.md

+++
title = "This week in Amethyst 12"
description = "What happened this week: new CI strategy, tutorial improvements and upcoming features"
date = 2018-10-24
+++

Hello and welcome to the 12th issue of _This Week in Amethyst_, a blog bringing to
you the latest changes regarding Amethyst, a data-driven game engine written in
Rust.

> We're happy about the fast growing activity on our project! Given the wide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're very proud of the fast growing activity on our project! Given the wide
```

interest from the community, we figured it's time to continue
_This Week in Amethyst_. We'd like to go with the following structure from now
on:

* important recent changes
* chosen ongoing issues / PRs with high importance and / or activity
* call for participation

A list of new contributors, issues and PRs will no longer be included. New
contributors will be listed in release posts; issues and PRs have gotten far
too many to list them all here.

## New CI strategy

> CI is crucially important for projects, even more so for big ones. That

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CI is crucially important for any project, even more so for the big ones. That
```

said, Travis and AppVeyor have been causing us issues since a long time,

> blocking effective work on the engine due to long build times.

Reviewer 2: I'd say Travis has been doing a great job honestly. I don't want to put Travis and AppVeyor on the same level, because the former's service is way superior. I'd reformulate that into:
"Amethyst's workflow is extremely dependant on good Continuous Integration (or CI). It allows us to make sure all pull requests we merge pass all our tests, enabling us to expand fast. Travis, our free CI provider, has been doing a great job, but we needed faster and more parallel builds."

Author: Both CI services did cause us issues, the fact that we use Travis can be seen a couple lines beneath. I'm gonna add one sentence, give me a sec

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer 2: What I didn't like was the wording lol

Reviewer 2: I don't really care about comparing AppVeyor and Travis.

Author: ...

Author: You don't want to compare them but still you don't want to tell Travis has been causing issues even though it has?

Sorry, I'm not following anymore.

Reviewer 2: Whatever.

After an insane amount of research and experimentation, [Ellie][ell] has come
up with a big first step to improve the situation, implemented by
[this PR][prc]. These are the changes in short:

> * use [Concourse][con] for building PRs and showing its status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* use [Concourse][con] as a first pass for building PRs for Linux and showing its status
```

* thanks to Travis' new Windows support, Travis can now be used to build for all
  three platforms; it will now be used by bors, as a final check before merging
  the PR into master

> * AppVeyor has been dropped entirely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* AppVeyor has been dropped entirely (because of the poor quality of its free service, it has now been entirely replaced thanks to Travis' new support for Windows)
```
I hate AppVeyor.

Author: Well, I don't think that needs to go in there.

Reviewer 2: Alright

[ell]: https://github.com/magnanellie
[prc]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1047
[con]: https://concourse-ci.org/

This way, Travis has less workload and is only needed when a PR is merged.
By using Concourse we not only avoid blocking our merging pipeline, but we
now also have dedicated status reports for tests, book tests and correct
formatting.

## What's being worked on currently?

> We've decided that we want to move to Nalgebra. We previously used `cgmath` due

Reviewer 2: I know you like to get to the point, but this might be a bit rough lol
Maybe people don't know what nalgebra is.
"Amethyst's math library has always been `cgmath`. But blah blah blah, so we decided that we will now move to `nalgebra`", something along those lines.

Author: Please check if you like it now.

> to both historic and simplicity reasons. Since it's in maintainance mode now

Reviewer 2: Maintenance mode? I think you meant "may no longer be maintained".

Author: Well, maintenance mode = I'm gonna merge PRs that come in.

Author: It's in rustgd now.

Reviewer 2: You should explain it then.

> and `nalgebra` got a nice & easy API ([nalgebra-glm][nlg]), we're doing the

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should mention that API seeing as we aren't going to be using it internally in the engine. Your call though.

Author: Okay I just asked if we are using it ^^

> and `nalgebra` got a nice & easy API ([nalgebra-glm][nlg]), we're doing the

Reviewer 2: Are we really using `nalgebra-glm`?

Author: That's unresolved.

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure we aren't.

migration. We think this is an important step for unifying the Rust ecosystem.
Thanks to [Ellie][ell] for doing [the migration PR][prn]!

[nlg]: https://www.nalgebra.org/nalgebra_glm/
[prn]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1066

The transition to Nalgebra in Amethyst & its [rhusics bridge][brh] is going to
be the focus for this release. Meanwhile, [Rhuagh][rhu] and [sebcrozet][seb]
are working on [better ECS support][npe] for [`nphysics`][nph] (work hasn't
started on the nphysics-ecs repo just yet, but it's planned for this weekend).

[brh]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst-rhusics
[rhu]: https://github.com/Rhuagh
[seb]: https://github.com/sebcrozet
[npe]: https://github.com/rustsim/nphysics-ecs
[nph]: https://github.com/rustsim/nphysics

In other news, [Yuurai][yuu] is working a formatting tool for [RON files][ron]!
You can find the repo [here][rof], but note that it's still very experimental.
This will make our lives a lot easier since RON files are used for configuration

> and prefabs in Amethyst; soon we'll no longer have to format them by hand :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and prefabs in Amethyst; soon we'll no longer have to format them by hand.
```

Author: No smiley?

Reviewer: I don't think we should have it since it comes off as a bit unprofessional, but this is only a suggestion after all :wink:

[yuu]: https://github.com/Ristarg
[ron]: https://github.com/ron-rs/ron
[rof]: https://github.com/Ristarg/ronfmt

Speaking of prefabs.. [Rhuagh][rhu] is working on [a PR] that lets us define
new prefabs very easily, with much less boilerplate. With the new macro it will
be as easy as adding a few derives:

```rust
#[derive(Default, Deserialize, Serialize, PrefabData)]
#[serde(default)]
struct ScenePrefabData {
    transform: Option<Transform>,
    gltf: Option<AssetPrefab<GltfSceneAsset, GltfSceneFormat>>,
    camera: Option<CameraPrefab>,
    light: Option<LightPrefab>,
    tag: Option<Tag<AnimationMarker>>,
    fly_tag: Option<ControlTagPrefab>,
}
```

[prd]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1035

## Interesting discussions

There's one RFC I've chosen to present here, 

> "Std I/O driven application (aka `amethyst_commands`)" ([link][rfc]).

Reviewer 2: I love the idea of presenting RFCs!

Author: :+1: :smiley:

This RFC, written by [azriel][azr], is part of a bigger topic, runtime
modification of the game and control of its behavior. This is required for
many things like the editor, networking, modding, scripting, etc. Make sure
to weigh in if you have any ideas regarding these topics! We're hoping that
we can find a way to make all of that possible with as few APIs as possible.

The RFC specifically is based on code [azriel] has already implemented for 

> [their own game][wil]. I'm posting a little proof of concept they showed us

Reviewer: You should get rid of the `I'm`

Author: Yeah, I'm not quite sure. I first tried to keep it impersonal. Let's be consistent here.

here, so you can get an idea what this is about:

> {{ youtube(id="jpk2MTeWz3w") }}

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this will render properly. Could you try rendering the website locally to see if it works well on desktop and mobile views?

Author: I tried.

Reviewer 2: Okay, have you checked there is no overflow?

Author: Done.

blocking effective work on the engine due to long build times.

After an insane amount of research and experimentation, [Ellie][ell] has come
up with a big first step to improve the situation, implemented by
[this PR][prc]. These are the changes in short:

* use [Concourse][con] as a first pass for building PRs for Linux and showing its status
* thanks to Travis' new Windows support, Travis can now be used to build for all
  three platforms; it will now be used by bors, as a final check before merging
  the PR into master
* AppVeyor has been dropped entirely

[ell]: https://github.com/magnanellie
[prc]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1047
[con]: https://concourse-ci.org/

This way, Travis has less workload and is only needed when a PR is merged.
By using Concourse we not only avoid blocking our merging pipeline, but we
now also have dedicated status reports for tests, book tests and correct
formatting.

## What's being worked on currently?

Amethyst's math library has been using `cgmath` so far, but we've decided that
we want to move to Nalgebra. We previously used `cgmath` due
to both historic and simplicity reasons. Since it's in maintainance mode now

> and `nalgebra` got an easier API, we're doing the migration.

Author: But nalgebra had a rather complex API before (due to many generics). The recent additions (non-generic versions) have made it easier.

> and `nalgebra` got an easier API, we're doing the migration.

Reviewer 3: I don't think that saying `has` removes that though. since technically that change was in the past

> and `nalgebra` got an easier API, we're doing the migration.

Reviewer 3: what

We think this is an important step for unifying the Rust ecosystem.
Thanks to [Ellie][ell] for doing [the migration PR][prn]!

[nlg]: https://www.nalgebra.org/nalgebra_glm/
[prn]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1066

The transition to Nalgebra in Amethyst & its [rhusics bridge][brh] is going to
be the focus for this release. Meanwhile, [Rhuagh][rhu] and [sebcrozet][seb]
are working on [better ECS support][npe] for [`nphysics`][nph] (work hasn't
started on the nphysics-ecs repo just yet, but it's planned for this weekend).

[brh]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst-rhusics
[rhu]: https://github.com/Rhuagh
[seb]: https://github.com/sebcrozet
[npe]: https://github.com/rustsim/nphysics-ecs
[nph]: https://github.com/rustsim/nphysics

> In other news, [Yuurai][yuu] is working a formatting tool for [RON files][ron]!

Reviewer 4: `is working on a formatting tool`

Author: ah right

[wil]: https://azriel.im/will/

## Call for participation

We love contributions from the community, so if you see something you'd like
to work on, don't hesitate! We are going to help you and point you into the
right direction if something doesn't work out at first.

We have tasks with different difficulty. Make sure to choose easier ones at
first, because hard issues can become quite frustrating, especially if you
didn't work on Amethyst before.

Here are seven issues for you to pick from:

* [very easy] [Use the Transform component for all examples][is0]
* [easy] [Doc improvements][is1] (you can add new suggestions or fix existing)
* [easy] [Textures are dynamic unconditionally][is2]
* [moderate] [Lighting / Pass compatibility][is3]
* [moderate] [Create architectural overview of Amethyst][is4] (can be auto-
  generated)
* [moderate] [Write animation tutorial for the book][is5]
* [moderate] [Managing graphics settings & applying changes][is6]

Please let us know that you're working on an issue using a short comment,
that way we can avoid duplicate work. Also note that you can help by
contributing to the discussion; especially the last issue can really use

> soem more input!

Reviewer 4: soem

+++
title = "This week in Amethyst 12"
description = "What happened this week: new CI strategy, tutorial improvements and upcoming features"
date = 2018-10-24
[extra]
author = "torkleyy"
author_link = "https://github.com/torkleyy"
+++

Hello and welcome to the 12th issue of _This Week in Amethyst_, a blog bringing to
you the latest changes regarding Amethyst, a data-driven game engine written in
Rust.

We're very proud of the fast growing activity on our project! Given the wide
interest from the community, we figured it's time to continue
_This Week in Amethyst_. We'd like to go with the following structure from now
on:

* important recent changes
* chosen ongoing issues / PRs with high importance and / or activity
* call for participation

A list of new contributors, issues and PRs will no longer be included. New
contributors will be listed in release posts; issues and PRs have gotten far
too many to list them all here.

## New CI strategy

CI is crucially important for any project, even more so for the big ones. That

> said, Travis and AppVeyor have been causing us issues since a long time,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
said, Travis and AppVeyor have been causing us issues for some time now,
```

up with a big first step to improve the situation, implemented by
[this PR][prc]. These are the changes in short:

* use [Concourse][con] as a first pass for building PRs for Linux and showing
  its status
* thanks to Travis' new Windows support, Travis can now be used to build for all
  three platforms; it will now be used by
  bors<sup><a href="#fn1" id="r1">[1]</a></sup>, as a final check before merging
  the PR into master
* AppVeyor has been dropped entirely

[ell]: https://github.com/magnanellie
[prc]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1047
[con]: https://concourse-ci.org/

This way, Travis has less workload and is only needed when a PR is merged.
By using Concourse we not only avoid blocking our merging pipeline, but we
now also have dedicated status reports for tests, book tests and correct
formatting.

## What's being worked on currently?

Amethyst's math library has been using `cgmath` so far, but we've decided that
we want to move to Nalgebra. We previously used `cgmath` due
to both historic and simplicity reasons. Since it's in maintainance
mode<sup><a href="#fn2" id="r2">[2]</a></sup> now

> and `nalgebra` has an easier API now, we're doing the migration.

Reviewer 5: > now and `nalgebra` has an easier API now

There's two "now" in the same sentence.

We think this is an important step for unifying the Rust ecosystem.
Thanks to [Ellie][ell] for doing [the migration PR][prn]!

[nlg]: https://www.nalgebra.org/nalgebra_glm/
[prn]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1066

The transition to Nalgebra in Amethyst & its [rhusics bridge][brh] is going to
be the focus for this release. Meanwhile, [Rhuagh][rhu] and [sebcrozet][seb]
are working on [better ECS support][npe] for [`nphysics`][nph] (work hasn't
started on the nphysics-ecs repo just yet, but it's planned for this weekend).

[brh]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst-rhusics
[rhu]: https://github.com/Rhuagh
[seb]: https://github.com/sebcrozet
[npe]: https://github.com/rustsim/nphysics-ecs
[nph]: https://github.com/rustsim/nphysics

In other news, [Yuurai][yuu] is working on a formatting tool for [RON files][ron]!
You can find the repo [here][rof], but note that it's still very experimental.
This will make our lives a lot easier since RON files are used for configuration
and prefabs in Amethyst; soon we'll no longer have to format them by hand!

[yuu]: https://github.com/Ristarg
[ron]: https://github.com/ron-rs/ron
[rof]: https://github.com/Ristarg/ronfmt

> Speaking of prefabs.. [Rhuagh][rhu] is working on [a PR][prd] that lets us define

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Speaking of prefabs... [Rhuagh][rhu] is working on [a PR][prd] that lets us define
```

Author: That sounds too long :P

Reviewer: Well, two dots is never really allowed in the english language, but your call I guess :stuck_out_tongue:

Reviewer 3: Agreed should be three.

Author: Who said this post is written in English? I tend to use my personal fork (torkleyy/English).

Do you really want me to rebase?

new prefabs very easily, with much less boilerplate. With the new macro it will
be as easy as adding a few derives:

```rust
#[derive(Default, Deserialize, Serialize, PrefabData)]
#[serde(default)]
struct ScenePrefabData {
    transform: Option<Transform>,
    gltf: Option<AssetPrefab<GltfSceneAsset, GltfSceneFormat>>,
    camera: Option<CameraPrefab>,
    light: Option<LightPrefab>,
    tag: Option<Tag<AnimationMarker>>,
    fly_tag: Option<ControlTagPrefab>,
}
```

[prd]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/pull/1035

## Interesting discussions

> There's one RFC I've chosen to present here, 

Reviewer: I probably missed this when I first looked through, but I still don't think these post should ever refer to yourself. :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes:

Author: damn, and I thought I could get through with it.

Author: Okay make a suggestion please bc I know you're not gonna like my sentence.

Reviewer 3: 🤣

Reviewer: `Among the recently opened RFCs, theres is a particularly interesting one called "Std I/O driven application (aka `amethyst_commands`)"` and then I would have personally also added that it's written by Azriel at the end, but that doesn't work with the next paragraph as it's currently written.

"Std I/O driven application (aka `amethyst_commands`)" ([link][rfc]).

This RFC, written by [azriel][azr], is part of a bigger topic, runtime
modification of the game and control of its behavior. This is required for
many things like the editor, networking, modding, scripting, etc. Make sure
to weigh in if you have any ideas regarding these topics! We're hoping that
we can find a way to make all of that possible with as few APIs as possible.

The RFC specifically is based on code [azriel][azr] has already implemented for 
[their own game][wil]. Here's a little proof of concept they posted a while ago,
so you can get an idea what this is about:

> {{ youtube(id="jpk2MTeWz3w", class="youtube") }}

Reviewer 5: Broken link on github preview, maybe it works fine once built?

We're happy to get some input from you!

[rfc]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/issues/999
[azr]: https://github.com/azriel91
[wil]: https://azriel.im/will/

## Call for participation

We love contributions from the community, so if you see something you'd like
to work on, don't hesitate! We are going to help you and point you into the
right direction if something doesn't work out at first.

We have tasks with different difficulty. Make sure to choose easier ones at
first, because hard issues can become quite frustrating, especially if you
haven't worked on Amethyst before.

Here are seven issues for you to pick from:

> * [very easy] [Use the Transform component for all examples][is0]

Reviewer 2: amethyst/amethyst#1070 addressed this, don't forget to remove it

* [easy] [Doc improvements][is1] (you can add new suggestions or fix existing)
* [easy] [Textures are dynamic unconditionally][is2]

> * [moderate] [Lighting / Pass compatibility][is3]

Reviewer 5: Is it working on since there's a new renderer in the works?
Also, is the new renderer still in the scope of 0.10? I didn't see any mentions.

Reviewer 5: 1. I can't type. I meant, "is it worth working on since there's a new renderer being worked on".

If the renderer isn't in the score of 0.10 anymore, then it makes sense.
:+1:

Reviewer 2: I wasn't aware of it not being in the 0.10 version?

+++

> title = "This week in Amethyst - 43/2018"

Author: I prefer this format over numbering them from 1 to infinity.

description = "What happened this week: new CI strategy, tutorial improvements
and other current tasks"
date = 2018-10-24
+++

> Hello and welcome to the 12 issue of _This Week in Amethyst_, a blog bringing to

Author: ```suggestion
Hello and welcome to the 12th issue of _This Week in Amethyst_, a blog bringing to
```

you the latest changes regarding Amethyst, a data-driven game engine written in
Rust.

We're happy about the fast growing activity on our project! Given the wide
interest from the community, we figured it's time to continue
_This Week in Amethyst_. We'd like to go with the following structure from now
on:

* important recent changes
* chosen ongoing issues / PRs with high importance and / or activity
* call for participation

A list of new contributors, issues and PRs will no longer be included. New
contributors will be listed in release posts; issues and PRs have gotten far
too many to list them all here.

## New CI strategy

> CI has is crucially important for projects, even more so for big ones. That

Author: ```suggestion
CI is crucially important for projects, even more so for big ones. That
```

[is5]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/issues/637
[is6]: https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/issues/1019

This edition was written by [torkleyy].

> [tor]: https://github.com/torkleyy

Reviewer 2: Use the built-in authoring system. See Discord.

Author: I just applied what the other editions had at the end. I'm not sure what you mean here.

Author: Ah saw it.
